=head1 NAME

ColourChooser - Perl/Tk module providing a Colour selection dialogue box.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Tk::ColourChooser ; 

    my $col_dialog = $Window->ColourChooser ;
    my $colour     = $col_dialog->Show ;
    if( $colour ) {
        # They pressed OK and the colour chosen is in $colour - could be
        # transparent which is 'None' unless -transparent is set.
    }
    else {
        # They cancelled.
    }

    # May optionally have the colour initialised.
    my $col_dialog = $Window->ColourChooser( -colour => 'green' ) ;
    my $col_dialog = $Window->ColourChooser( -colour => '#0A057C' ) ;

    # The title may also be overridden; and we can insist that only hex values
    # are returned rather than colour names. We can disallow transparent.
    my $col_dialog = $Window->ColourChooser( 
                        -title       => 'Select a colour',
                        -colour      => '0A057C',
                        -transparent => 0,
                        -hexonly     => 1,
                        ) ;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

ColourChooser is a dialogue box which allows the user to pick a colour from
the list in rgb.txt (supplied with X Windows), or to create a colour by
setting RGB (red, green, blue) values with slider controls.

You can scroll through all the named colours by using the <Down> and <Up>
arrow keys on the keyboard or by clicking the mouse on the scrollbar and then
clicking the colour list.

=head2 Options

=over 4
=item C<-title>  
This is optional and allows you to set the title. Default is 'Colour Chooser'.

=item C<-colour> 
This is optional and allows you to specify the colour that is shown when the
dialogue is invoked. It may be specified as a colour name from rgb.txt or as a
six digit hex number with an optional leading hash, i.e. as 'HHHHHH' or
'#HHHHHH'. Default is 'black'.

=item C<-hexonly>
This is optional. If set to 1 it forces the ColourChooser to only return
colours as hex numbers in Tk format ('#HHHHHH'); if set to 0 it returns
colours as names if they are named in rgb.txt, and as hex numbers if they have
no name. Transparent is always returned as 'None' however. Default is 0.

=item C<-transparent>
This is optional. If set to 0 it stops ColourChooser offering the Transparent
button so that only valid colours may be chosen - or cancel. Default is 1.
=back

The user has three options: 

=head2 OK

Pressing OK will return the selected colour, as a name if it has one or as an
RGB value if it doesn't. (Colours which do not have names are listed as
'Unnamed' in the colour list box.) If the C<-hexonly> option has been specified
the colour is always returned as a Tk colour hex value, i.e. in the form
'#HHHHHH' except if Transparent is chosen in which case 'None' is returned.

OK is pressed by a mouse click or <Return> or <o> or <Control-o> or <Alt-o>.

=head2 Transparent

Pressing Transparent will return the string 'None' which is xpm's name for
transparent.

Transparent is pressed by a mouse click or <t> or <Control-t> or <Alt-t>.

=head2 Cancel

Pressing Cancel will return an empty string.

Cancel is pressed by a mouse click or <Escape> or <c> or <Control-c> or <Alt-c>.

=head1 INSTALLATION

ColourChooser.pm should be placed in any Tk directory in any lib directory in
Perl's %INC path, for example, '/usr/lib/perl5/Tk'.

ColourChooser looks for the file rgb.txt on your system - if it can't find it
you will only be able to specify colours by RGB value.

=head1 BUGS

ColourChooser does almost no error checking.

ColourChooser can be slow to load because rgb.txt is large.

=head1 CHANGES

1999/01/29  First version.

1999/02/15  Improved handling of initial colour so that it copes better with
            the variety of valid colour name inputs.

1999/02/17  If a colour is given as lowercase hex it is now properly
            recognised.

1999/02/23  Should now be Windows compatible.

1999/03/02  Now when you scroll with the scrollbar both the colourname and the
            colour shown are updated (the same as when you move up and down
            with the arrow keys).

1999/04/21  Updating the colour when you move the scrollbar with the mouse 
            is buggy -- can't figure out why so have reverted.

1999/08/05  Just changed the files to make them more CPAN friendly.


=head1 AUTHOR

Mark Summerfield. I can be contacted as <summer@chest.ac.uk> -
please include the word 'colourchooser' in the subject line.

The code draws from Stephen O. Lidie's work.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) Mark Summerfield 1999. All Rights Reserved.

This module may be used/distributed/modified under the same terms as Perl
itself.

=cut


